This is to cover the points made in the Scintific Editor's comments
and the Reviewer's comments:

General
-------

In the new pdf the textual changes and additions are in blue.

Some figures have changed. In particular there is now a photo of the
array and one of the dish structure (in place of the CAD drawing). The
figure with pulsar folding (with bad character size) has been
replaced.  The figure captions have been lengthened in some cases to
meet with the reviewer's comment 4.  (A few of the original figures
are very large, so I would prefer to send them once there paper is
accepted, or has only minor changes needed.)

The Appendix (with acronyms) has been omitted, as has the section on
HI intensity mapping (which did not include any useful results)

Enumerated list have gone, although some itemized list have stayed.
(My apologies, but I like lists - this text can be changed, but I think
it reads more clearly with them in)


Authors
-------
One author has been added and a few of their affiliations changed.

Abstract
--------
The abstract has been extended to give a better summary


Introducion
----------

There is now an aerial photo of the array and the layout diagram has a
more obvious crossed lines at the centre.

The text about the initial ideas has been reduced.

Design Drivers
--------------

minor text change.

The design was not for any real astronomical goals, KAT-7 was designed
as a enigneering test-bed for possible concepts for MeerKAT. The use
of KAT-7 for astronomy was put in as an afterthought.

Antenna and Optics
------------------

There is now a photo of dishes-edge on (the original photo shows the
lightning rods more clealy), and some text about the primary beam
measurements.

The section on composites has been changed, and notes the drawbacks of
composites when making more complicated dish shapes (in particular
with the anisiotropy problem)

The subsection 4.0.1 ('Why Composites') has been changed to mention
alternatives and some of the drawbacks of composite dishes.

RF and IF chain
---------------

The calibratability issue; We use linear dipole feeds just as ATCA
does. As far as I know the ATCA L-band receivers there have always
used linear dipoles. Although it is possible to make wideband circular
polarization receivers with combinations of half wave and quarter wave
plates, it is had to get better than 10% polarization purity across
the whole band for large fractional bandwidths, as the 'quarter wave'
varies so much across the band.

For an example of measuring circular polarization with dipole feeds at
ATCA see O'Sullivan et al MNRAS 435, 311â€“319 (2013), particularly
section 2, 2nd paragraph

Correlator
---------

The correlator diagram has been changed, to attempt to make it clearer.



